later in the course. That is, there was a back-end SQL database, very large database, that was somehow accessible via external web server.
Anyway, you see the pointers here, you can still read about these.
That is just a nice playground to analyze, and here are some statistics, some takeaways from that database.
These are top 20 passwords, and what you see is the rank, the password, and the number of users that selected that password.
Some of those are totally not surprising, right? Like ABC 1-3, 1-8, 1-7, Roku, because it's a Roku database.
Princess, I don't know, I can't explain princess, I don't know what that's about, but I love you, password, okay, those are easy to explain.
Monkey, I don't know, that must be a term of endearment in the UK, but then we'll be fine here.
Names, mostly female names for some reason, okay, maybe that's because most of the users were male.
This is the gaming side of it, so it's fair to prove the majority of the users were male.
Right, so that's kind of depressing.
Now, we'll come back to passwords later, but one of the things I want to illustrate is that sometimes companies, websites, and organizations come up with clever tricks to make it easy for users to pick passwords or pick and memorize pins.
Now, in this case, banks typically use pins, right?
For website access, they use password, but for ATM access, right, they use pins.
Also, on the phone, they often ask you, if you call a bank, they'll ask you for a pin.
And so, if you let users pick pins, you'll have the same problems as with passwords.
Users will pick dates, typically, right?
Or some kind of very familiar, predictable things like, I don't know, a street address or a phone number, right?
So, dates, street addresses, phone numbers are the most common choices for pins if you leave users the freedom to pick them.
So, this bank in the UK wanted to make it easy for users to memorize their pins.
But the pins were supposed to be random, okay?
Meaning, the bank would come up with a random pin and assign it to the user.
Are you with me?
Alright.
This happens here, too, even today, right?
Some banks do that.
Definitely, my bank did it about 10 years ago, and they stopped.
So, what they said is like this.
If you basically get a grid, like this, you see, a 4 by 10 grid.
And the top row is the numbers, right?
So, if the bank gives you a password, sorry, a pin that is 4 digits,
you basically pick your favorite 4 character word that you know you will remember,
and write it down from left to right on this grid.
So, in this example, the bank gave the password, sorry, a pin 2256.
That's presumably a randomly generated pin.
And the user happens to write the word blue, because 4 digits, right?
4 characters, blue.
So, if the user writes the word blue on this grid, where that 22, right?
Because BL are under 2, because that means the first characters,
the first digits should be 2 and 2.
And then UE, 5, 6, right?
So, the idea is that then, once the user has written it down,
all the other squares in this table are filled in with random characters.
Are you with me?
Now imagine, I wish I had better animation here,
imagine the rest of the squares filled with random characters,
also written in the same typeface in black, okay?
So, you cannot tell, right?
And the point of this is that, if you look at this cheat sheet, right?
You print this out, right?
You carry this around, this cheat sheet.
It only makes sense to you.
You'll remember your pin, because what you will do,
is you'll always remember your word, blue, right?
Blue is your favorite four-letter word.
So, when somebody else looks at this table,
and it's filled in with random garbage, right?
It's basically a bunch of letters.
They don't know.
You look puzzled.
So, normally, in order to guess a pin, a four-digit pin,
you would have to try up to, usually half,
10,000 possibilities, right?
There are 10,000 four-digit numbers.
On average, if you want to break somebody's pin,
you would have to try 5,000, right?
On average.
But, in this case, if somebody gets a hold of,
or takes a snapshot of this table,
it might seem like, oh,
there's lots of possibilities here, right?
At least as many as 10,000, right?
Because, actually, it's like this.
Look at that.
There are four rows that are empty under the number row, right?
And then there are 10 rows, right?
Sorry, 10 columns.
So, we have, basically,
4 times 4 times 4,
4 to the 10th, right?
Which is 2 to the 20 possibilities
of combinations of letters, right?
Actually, it's more,
because you can do the things you can have.
So, it seems like if you look at the combination of letters,
it's even more than there are pins.
But the truth is something else.
If somebody takes a snapshot,
or steals a copy of this cheat sheet,
all they have to do is look for English words,
from left to right, right?
They can go down and sideways,
or they can go just sideways, right?
Human eyes are good at that.
So, in fact, if you're looking for four-letter English words
in a randomly jumbled matrix,
where there is really just one four-letter English words,
there may be some accidental ones, right?
You will completely shortcut the pin-breaking process.
There will be maybe a few dozen possibilities
of four-letter English words,
and one of them will be blue.
So, that's an example of a clever trick
that makes it way easier for an adversary to attack the system.
Okay?
You still look puzzled.
Don't believe me?
Anybody?
Don't be afraid to ask.
Now, remember, it's all left to right, right?
The digits have to be moving, right?
There's your pin.
You have to remember your pin as you, the user, the owner,
has to remember your pin, right?
And so, you write a four-letter word,
but it's not written like this.
It's written in a certain way, right?
You have to be able to parse that word, find it.
You remember the word.
You look at this, you say, you're looking for,
if the word is blue, you're looking for the letter B.
Then you're looking for L, right?
Where's L?
Oh, it's here.
There's U.
There's E.
Okay?
Now, if you think that standard tricks like,
I don't know, spelling words backwards.
This is a typical children's trick, right?
This is the spell.
Some kids even play games with, like, speaking words backwards.
It helps, it does not.
Because the password databases that are out there already have them.
First and last names, common first and last names.
Most first and last names are just well-known and easy to calculate.
Street names, city names, state names, place names, mountain names.
All of those things are easily enumerable.
And all geographical locations in the world, in fact, are.
Same goes with upper lowercase.
If you know at least the scope of what users you are trying to have,
driver's license numbers, right?
If you know somebody is likely to live in California
and have a California driver's license number,
well, guess what?
All California driver's license numbers have a very similar format, right?
Like my driver's license, C6715402.
Okay?
Well, there's not a lot of digits there.
I mean, it's enough, but you can enumerate all of them.
License plates are also in kind of sequential.
License plates.
In California.
Yeah.
Well, there's that.
There was a time when even social security numbers had a structure.
Today, they don't.
But back in my day, you could look at a social security number and say,
oh, I know which state this comes from.
And I know roughly what year you are going to assign this social security number.
Today, they're not like that.
Okay.
Same goes for telephone numbers.
Point of language is if you think, oh, well, you know,
I'm going to use Swahili.
Meh.
Most common foreign languages are easily enumerable and stored in these password database.
Probably the best combination, and this is not something I can give you a proof for,
is if you don't want to use, let's say, if you're not good at picking things with special symbols
or remembering numbers, the best thing you can do is pick, I would say, three or more languages,
three is a good number, that you do not speak.
Okay?
And other people know you don't speak.
Because if people know you speak a particular foreign language, that helps in the attack, right?
Especially assume that people who will attack you are people who might know something about you.
Like your CV, which is on LinkedIn, might say, I speak Farsi, or I speak Albanian.
Well, that's a leak.
Because if you speak Farsi or Albanian, that is a high chance that you will pick a password from those languages.
Okay?
So what you do is instead pick three languages that you do not speak, but you know a few words.
You don't speak, but you know a few words from each.
Combine the three words, right?
Okay?
And then you have a password.
That makes it a lot harder for crap.
It can still be crap, but it's a lot harder.
Okay.
Well, then, in recent years, most reputable systems started to enforce length limits.
Meaning minimum length for a password, right?
What are the minimum lengths you see out there?
Eight is probably the lower bound, right?
I haven't seen less than eight for passwords.
For pins, it can be six, but eight, sometimes 12, right?
I have not seen more than 12.
Have anybody seen more than 12?
Right.
Have you seen upper limits?
Yes, right?
Upper limits exist.
And, yeah, I think we discussed that already, I think, last time, right?
Okay.
So, let's say most are today between eight and 12, and then what do they do?
They require one upper lower case.
Sorry, let's say, right?
One, I guess they require mixed case, right?
Often, not all.
Most require at least one letter.
Sorry, at least one number.
And if you use all numbers, they require at least one letter, right?
I believe that most people don't do that.
And then one special character, right?
Which is usually for a minute.
It does not often include like dollar sign or pound sign, right?
It will be like comma, exclamation, question mark, something like that, right?
And how effective is that, do you think?
I think people would try to use the minimum number of everything and then pattern that they...
Right.
That is true.
The studies have shown that people will use the minimum.
Studies show that people will use predictable things like, for example, you know, substituting i's with ones.
Substituting o's with zeros.
Which makes it very, very pretty difficult.
Adding one, two, three to the beginning or the end.
Adding usually exclamation points.
The typical thing is add one bang or one exclamation point, right?
Just to satisfy it.
Just to get rid of the annoying checker, right?
And let you...
So, yes, it is effective because it increases the search space, but no, not by a lot.
Also, using special characters is an interesting thing.
Now, how many of you have, let's say, logged in using special characters from keyboards other than American keyboards?
Anyone?
Nobody else?
Non-quality keyboards, like European keyboards.
Or Asian keyboards.
Just one person.
Okay.
Well, I'll raise my hand, too.
So, you know what?
Have you had any difficulties?
Not usually.
I'm kind of using the different...
I use it.
Okay.
Well, one of the things, if you go, let's say, to Europe, is you'll see the keyboards, although
they're kind of laid out, the letters are laid out in the same way, the special symbols aren't.
So, like, add sign, pound sign, they're accessible by a different combination than they are in the U.S.
That makes it a real pain.
Okay?
So, whereas if you constrain your passwords to only letters and numbers, you don't have these issues.
Okay.
Well, then, what about these guys?
Now, we briefly talked about password vaults and managers, right?
But let's consider them a little more seriously.
People do use them.
Some companies actually require the use of this.
Okay?
I'm not going to preach for or against them, but let's consider both sides of these things.
I mean, it's kind of a cottage industry, too, right?
I mean, it's businesses that make money on it.
As I mentioned before, when we, I think, briefly touched upon it, they have to provide the same level of security
that a certification authority can provide for its CA, except that in this case, remember, the certification authority
has to be offline.
You can have some physically secure location, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, right?
Not connected to the internet, right?
This cannot be offline, right?
Because millions of users or thousands of users are using it all the time, right?
To retrieve passwords from the vault, right?
So the security requirements are harder.
Because if something is online, it can be accessed, right?
It's reachable.
Okay, but the good things are what?
So if you use a password manager or password vault, where it's via an app or website, whatever,
you can have super strong passwords, random long passwords that you don't have to remember.
It will remember them for you, right?
Basically, what is the password vault of password manager?
It has a small database for you, for your account, that lists all the websites or all the entities you do business with that require passwords.
It has your username and it has your password in the clear somewhere, right?
Because when you want to access the password manager and essentially to extract the password to enter into some website, it has to give you the password.
It cannot give you a hash, right?
It has to give you the whole thing.
So, hmm.
But anyway, it can have really strong passwords that you don't need to remember.
It will make sure you don't reuse passwords across sites.
Whereas, given freedom to do so, most people will be using passwords, right?
Most of you probably do too.
I know I have.
Because it's just a pain to remember a lot of passwords.
So, you go to one place, it's nice and convenient, like a supermarket.
You go there to get all your goods, and there's only one strong password to remember.
The one that unlocks the vault, right?
That's the password to other passwords.
So, you could argue that that password could be strong and you should be forced to remember it, but it's only one.
As opposed to many, so it's just basic goodness.
But let's look at the bad side.
The bad side, that becomes like, yeah, a giant pot of honey for bees.
Or, there's surely a better analogy somewhere.
But, it is an attractive target, right?
This is, why do bank robbers rob the banks?
Famously, because that's where the money is.
Well, why would somebody attack a password load?
Because that's where the passwords are.
And you can get a lot with those passwords, right?
So, there's a lot at stake.
Also, there's such a thing as insider attack.
Which is people who work for that company, who might go rogue one day, and decide to copy or steal information.
And sell it on the black market.
Okay?
For profit.
Then there's just other operational issues.
Not too much a security issue, but not strictly.
Where this password vault becomes a single point of failure.
It's basically a website, right?
You go to that website, or you access it by an app on your smartphone.
It is an entity, right?
That has to be accessed.
It isn't something that can be replicated on Akamai CDN.
No, it's a physical entity that has to be accessed.
And so, if they have software upgrade, like they did last August, if you recall there was an incident.
Right?
Maybe you do not recall.
That became a nightmare, because all the systems over the world, especially airlines, became inoperable.
Then you have an outage.
Or just somebody presses the wrong button, installs the wrong code, there's an outage.
So this password vault is not accessible, because they're performing maintenance.
Well, how are you going to get access to all the websites for which that vault knows the passwords, and you don't?
Just prove.
Denial of service attack.
We'll talk about those later in the course.
What if it is a massive distributed denial of service attack that essentially makes it impossible to access that password vault site?
Even though it's operational, but you can't access it.
You're screwed.
And then it could be just internet problems, right?
If you have an internet problem, meaning a router that is somewhere on the way that an internet router or an internet provider crashes, you can't access it.
And that completely gives you no service.
So consider those when using the vault.
Now, you might say, well, you know, if a smart company that runs one of those vaults wants to make the service ubiquitous, they will replicate things.
Tell them, oh, but replicating passwords, that's a touchy-feely subject, right?
How do you do that security?
And then you have to make sure that all the passwords are updated, right?
On all replicas.
Then, surely you're all familiar with screen unlocked.
How many people use those?
Not anymore?
Wow, like five years ago.
Pretty much more than that.
Three quarters of the class would be using it.
Anybody used them before?
Yeah.
Okay.
All right.
See?
When did you start?
When you switched to an iPhone or?
I think the phone all updated with Face ID.
No matter Android or Android.
Right, right.
So that's what I also, I never used these screen patterns unlocked, but I know people did.
At one point, everybody, it seemed to me like everybody was using it.
So, yeah, you're right.
The face unlock and the fingerprint, to a lesser extent, became a more common way of unlocking, because it required no real effort.
Right?
But the claim to fame of the screen unlock, right?
That pattern was it's easy to remember.
Somehow, it felt like, I mean, at least studies at the time showed that it's easier for people to remember the unlock patterns than it is to remember pins.
Right?
Because phones usually don't take passwords, right?
Phones were traditionally unlocked with pins.
It's just easier because phones have limited real estate, right?
On the screen, just playing a keyboard is awkward.
Right?
It is awkward.
Right?
Even for people with tiny fingers.
So, cool.
Back.
Easy to remember, easy to enter, right?
Just use your fingertips.
They're more intuitive than passwords.
That's for sure.
And more intuitive than pins.
On the other hand, they are specific to a particular phone on a particular screen.
Right?
Different phones have different screen layouts.
Even when they show you a numeric pad, they often show you it in a different way.
There was no standardization.
So, it was difficult to assure that the same, if you wanted to use the same unlock pattern
on multiple devices, you might not be able to do it.
Um, then the screen smudges.
I think I mentioned it earlier.
I did.
So, your fingertips have oils on them, normal.
Right?
It's not sweat or anything.
Like, even a dry looking finger will have some oil on them.
Right?
And, um, it will leave smudges on the screen.
Well, besides being annoying, meaning you have to clean the screen, it also leaves residue.
And that residue can be used to deduce the thing.
If somebody, like, looks at your phone, even without you being there, and just, like,
takes a high-dress photo of the screen, they might be able to deduce at least parts of these finger movements that you made to unlock.
It also turns out that there's acoustic leakage.
Remember I mentioned about acoustic emanations from keyboards when you type in a password?
Well, the same, to a lesser extent, but the same is true of, uh, dragging your fingertips across the screen.
You make a noise.
You might not hear it very well, but there is a noise being made.
Because even though the screen is glass, right, there's still friction.
And friction makes noise.
Um, it is also more susceptible to shoulder surfing.
And so the question is why?
So think, remember shoulder surfing?
I stand kind of behind you and kind of like, oh, look at what you're doing on the screen.
And typically against passwords, right?
Or pins.
But this, the claim is, is more susceptible to shoulder surfing apart.
Why do you think?
Visual products are easy to remember.
You don't even need to look at how he moved the finger.
You only need to see how he moved the head.
Maybe some people can guess.
Yeah, yeah, true.
But basically, the main reason what she said is that visual patterns are just easier to memorize.
Okay?
Now, if you have a camera, like, looking down on somebody's, like, for example, if there's a camera here and it's like looking at all your screens,
uh, there's no big difference between pins and unlock patterns.
But if it's a human, definitely easier to remember and unlock that.
Also, it proudly displays the whole pattern.
It does!
It does!
It does!
Which is weird, right?
In fact, I always wondered why it doesn't erase the tail.
You know how you type a password and it will, like, linger, every character will linger for, like, a second and then it will be replaced by an asterisk or something?
So the whole password is not displayed when you type it, obviously.
Why even do the same for unlock patterns?
It should be, like, a comment, right?
Like, erasing its own tail.
But they don't.
In the end, the entire pattern is visible.
True.
You had a question.
What?
Yeah, uh, back in the day, like, 2013, when Android all was, first off, popular, and screen-in-locks were all happening,
when you were setting up your phone, you had the option of, like, screen-in-lock, pin, password,
and they were all prominently really displayed.
Yeah.
Nowadays, if you get a new Android, it isn't hidden.
Like, you have to actually dig...
So you think, you're saying it exists?
Oh, it still exists, yeah.
Oh, it still exists, yeah.
My brother still uses it.
You get the new phone number if you want.
Okay, but when I asked...
What?
Must be working for a phone number.
But still, right?
Nobody's using it today.
No, it's hidden.
No, no, but all of you, okay?
Nobody's using it, right?
Okay, interesting.
Okay, you had a question.
What's up?
I was gonna say the tail disappeared in some of them.
In some of them it does?
Okay, well, hallelujah.
Good.
That would make more sense.
And also, the last but not least, people do tend to pick predictable patterns.
That's also been studied.
Yeah, you're not gonna pick some kind of a funny curly cue, right?
Usually it's kind of like a very predictable rectangular, triangular pattern.
All right, so what can we do to strengthen passwords?
Well, I mean, passwords themselves, we already kind of reached the limit, right?
There's no way...
Okay, humans are literate today.
We all can...
Because we use electronics, even those of us who don't go to...
Don't finish high school, right?
There are people in the world, lots of people in the world who don't finish high school
or get barely elementary school education.
They still don't.
Numbers, right?
They know letters.
So literacy is good, reasonably good, better than it was 50 years ago or 100 years ago.
But memorization is a problem, right?
So already memorizing 12 character passwords or 12 position passwords is difficult, right?
Assuming we even mix in special characters, numbers, lowercase, uppercase, et cetera.
So we've kind of reached the limit, right?
The humans are not going to develop beyond this.
And so all of a sudden, the next generation is going to be remembering 20 character passwords.
Not going to happen.
Okay?
So what can we do?
Well, we can add biometrics.
That's kind of an easy answer, right?
Add biometrics.
And so, for example, I have fingerprints, ivory scans, dynamic biometrics like keystrokes, right?
Voice prints, et cetera.
But, and we'll talk about biometrics in more detail.
But the biggest problem with biometrics is revocation.
Meaning if somebody, you know, if somebody's fingerprints were hijacked or somebody's keyboard patterns can be replicated, right?
By a pod.
How do you revolve it?
Right?
How do you stop it?
Because biometric is not something that can change, right?
You're not going to suddenly change the way you type.
You cannot change your DNA.
Right?
We have genomic-based authentication.
You cannot change your irises.
Certainly you don't want to change your, you can change your fingerprints, but why?
Let him out.
I hope there's not a toilet here.
Sometimes they put on, do unfortunate things like a bread bowl, there's a staff room with like coffee.
And when you're there, it's next to it, on the other side of the wall is a toilet.
So, every time somebody flushes, even if it unrolls toilet paper, you hear it, it's like, why?
Why did they do this?
I mean, it's really not pleasant.
So, anyway, so the other possibility, so we'll talk about biometrics, but the other possibility is graphical passwords.
Like image-based passwords.
Okay?
And so, maybe you have to strengthen things, right?
So, one example is what's called image recognition.
Because the idea is that we humans are kind of better, like this used to be much more true before than it is today, but we are generally better at recognizing images than bots or than computer programs.
Right?
So, one possibility is to say, okay, let's say the user's password or equivalent of a password is a sequence of images.
Or a set, nothing in the sequence, a set of images.
And there are many images we can show the user, but the user has to pick the right set.
You kind of know what I'm saying?
So, instead of memorizing something explicit to enter, you are asked to select a set of images that essentially are your passwords.
But you are selecting them from a large set.
Okay?
A large enough set.
Right?
And so, the idea is that, you know, yeah, you might think authenticity is similar to showing you a pinpad and you selecting the right digits.
But you have to remember those digits.
But you have to remember those digits where with images you are recognizing.
Right?
Rather remember you are recognizing.
So, the motivation behind this is that it's difficult to mount dictionary attack on images.
Right?
Because they don't follow the same pattern as, let's say, human memory does when we're selecting, or human mind does when selecting passwords of him.
Okay?
Of course, images are not random, but some people like to believe they are.
The one problem with images right away, if you use images for authentication, is that you cannot use very simple devices.
Right?
Something like a smartphone is going to be a challenge.
Right?
So, this is already not particularly good for, like, limited real estate devices.
But for a tablet or a laptop, this is probably okay.
Right?
So, let's think about, like, how would you use a graphical password on a tablet, laptop, desktop type of device.
Alright?
Also, we need to think about shoulder surfing, because when somebody picks images, right, those picks are kind of visible, right?
Obviously, right?
Because they have to, like, click on them or somehow select them.
Well, wouldn't displaying images reveal information because you know one of the images you selected at least has to be there?
And so, if you just try to log in...
Right, right, right.
Okay, okay.
So, let me give you a general idea.
Let me give you a general idea.
I mean, we'll go in this video.
So, suppose I display to you on your laptop screen 12 images at a time.
One of them means something to you.
The others don't.
You pick one.
I display a second screen, 12 images.
One of them means something to you.
The others don't.
Click.
I display the third, the fourth.
So, that's what we do four times.
Right.
But if you need to have, like, hundreds of thousands of these images to be secured, then...
Well, no, no, no.
Not secured.
The point is that the equivalent of a password here would be the combination, the exact combination.
The one from the first screen, one from the second screen.
Okay.
So, how many?
Well, there is like 12 to the power of four, right?
10,000.
Combinations.
Just repeat it over and over again.
Like, remove the...
Regenerate the...
No, no, no.
See, the idea is that there always has to be an image that is...
Exactly.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
Which one that repeats?
Which one is always there, right?
Okay.
You're going way ahead.
Right.
You're getting ahead.
Exactly.
Exactly.
So, now I'm just starting to think, like, paranoia, right?
A little bit of suspicion.
That's how security people do.
But the idea was like this.
I'm just telling you this because this is what people try to replace password, replace password.
And the moral of the story at the end, which I'm going to jump to anyway, is passwords are here to stay for a reason.
Because not for the lack of trying to replace them with something.
So, here's an example.
It's called past faces.
And at one point, it was like a really popular thing.
And so, and from this quote, you can see where it's going.
It's a beautiful solution, but it's completely wrong.
And so, this is like the pitch.
The pitch is, you are really good, you humans, you know, are really good at recognizing faces.
Right?
They really mean something to you.
It's really like a decision problem, right?
So, you know, in computational complexity, there are computation problems and decision problems.
Yeah?
Remember this from complexity or algorithms?
Well, recognition is a decision problem that your brain goes through.
Do I know this space or do I not know this space?
Okay?
So, a password is a computation problem, meaning that you have to fetch it from the storage somewhere in your brain.
Whereas that recognition is a decision problem.
So, for us, clearly, this is absolutely true, that it's easier to recognize a face than to remember a password.
Okay?
Of course, let's forget for a second, people with severe eyesight issues or blind people.
Okay?
That's not, of course, universal.
Okay?
But then passwords for people with no hands or, you know, malformed fingers are also different.
So, again, this is like a marketing pitch.
Never forget a face.
Alright?
So, let's skip to this.
So, the idea is a user will be enrolled into a system that will show them, like a training exercise, a set of faces.
And they will be assigned a set of, let's say, six faces and repeatedly trained on recognizing those faces.
Presumably within some time limit, like 30 minutes, 20 minutes, they will be given exercises to recognize those five, six faces that they're assigned to them.
Yeah?
Then, after enrollment, whenever they want to log in, they will be shown sequences of these kind of vignettes, like 12 at a time, 10 at a time, and ask to pick a face that is one of theirs.
Okay?
That's the main idea.
Okay?
So, you have a library, but you must have, of course, a big library of faces.
But that's easy, right?
You just collect, it's easy to collect a big library of black faces.
You can have different ages, genders, facial growth, hairstyles, all kinds of people, different races.
And then, there is a user interface, where users are initially assigned, in this example, five faces.
Okay?
And, each of the five faces is associated with decoys, right?
So, when you're trained, you see the blonde, over there, with bangs, that's your face.
This guy, smiling guy, over there in the middle is your face.
This lady is your face, et cetera, et cetera.
So, these are five faces that are supposed to be for you to remember.
Okay?
And now, every time you log in, you are shown a sequence of this, and this, and this, and this, and this.
And you must select, and maybe, maybe this is a different order, maybe in a different order.
The order doesn't matter.
The order could be perturbed.
Right?
You can show this first, and that, and this.
The thing is, you remember, you're supposed to remember the faces that are associated with you.
So, it's the same set of eight faces at the time.
Now, it's the same set of eight, but this might appear here.
Right?
So, the order of these five screens would change.
Right?
This can be random.
And the placement of your face within each screen will change too.
Okay?
So, on a given screen that you're shown with, in this case, nine faces, one of them is yours.
Its position is random.
So, this is the original enrollment, familiarization process, blah, blah, blah.
And so, the claim is that once you memorize, it's like there's a cookie in your brain.
Like a web cookie, you know, browser cookie.
That helps you recognize that.
And maybe, indeed, that's how the brain works.
I mean, like we, I think there's actually a cookie, but there is something, some state information
that's stored in your brain.
It's like when you see the same, like, character actor in the movie, in several movies.
Right?
You kind of recognize them again.
You might not remember their face.
Sorry.
You might not remember their name.
Right?
Because, you know, many character actors, but you recognize them.
So, this is what's called cognometrics.
Right?
Biometrics is cognometrics, because you're not using any innate property of yourself as a human.
You're using your recognition capabilities.
And this was, believe it or not, this was really popular for a while.
It really, like, the company that came up with it, they were, like, riding super hot.
It was one of those unicorn stars.
So, there's two variations, and you can think already which one is better.
There's variations where the system assigns you faces, like the one you just saw.
And there's another variation where the user picks faces.
Like, you're given, like, a vignette of, like, nine, and you say, I like this face.
And another vignette of nine, and you pick another face.
Okay?
Now, presumably, a user will pick faces they can remember better, right?
So, there's less training.
Now, a third possibility you can imagine where the user uploads their own faces.
Now, they didn't know for this.
Anybody can see why?
Because if somebody mounts an attack, a dictionary attack, right?
Or, sort of, an attack on somebody's fast pace.
And they know that the system allows them to upload their own photos.
Well, they're probably likely to know who are your friends, relatives, etc.
Right?
Right?
So, do you have treatment?
So, that's why that was not offered, right?
Where a user uploads their own photos.
Also, by highlighting.
That is also true, right?
So, yeah, of course, you can deal with that by varying lighting and so on, and, you know, reducing green light, increasing green light.
But, they didn't offer that.
Then, a bunch of people at, some researchers at John Plotkin's, and CMU, did a study of this.
And, this is, which brought the whole house and cars down.
They studied the user-selected fast pace variant.
Because, the system-selected one turned out not to be very practical.
People were just forgetting faces.
Right?
The user-selected one worked better.
When I say user-selected, it's the second one.
Right?
The conclusion was, that people tend to pick very biased faces.
Right?
The race and gender, or ethnicity and gender, have a lot to do with it.
Is that any of the surprising?
That's how we are.
That's how we operate.
Right?
And, particularly, it was, it was particularly bad for male students.
But, they didn't experiment on students.
So, keep that in mind, it's a specific preparation.
Right?
So, meaning two guesses of faces were enough for most, sorry, for 10% of male users, and eight guesses were enough for a quarter.
To basically get their fast faces.
Because, they would just pick, I don't know, the prettiest girls.
Yeah.
And, in fact, yeah?
Then, why not show all the particular in the same row, and then choose the only one level?
Because, they were simply not enough.
Right?
You have to mix in others.
Yeah.
But, I mean, I actually don't know the reasoning.
But, they would always consist, I mean, they tended to pick a very predictable kind of a face.
So, in the end, the system should probably pick, for security purposes, it's better for the system to pick faces for users than for users to pick faces.
Because, users will always exercise some bias, depending on their characteristics.
But, if the system picks faces, then you have a high error rate, and that's what they've observed.
Also, some people have what is called dyspagia.
It's a condition where they are unable to recognize faces.
There's a small percentage of humans all over the world that have this condition.
There is a book by a neuroscientist called, A Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat.
And, he talks about, you know, patients that have that issue.
How's it?
Personal technology.
Personal technology.
Personal, okay.
There you go.
Yeah.
Personal technology.
It's rare, but it's not completely unknown.
Also, you need these displays.
So, this is not good enough for smartphones.
It was supposed to be good enough for, like, laptops, desks.
And also, last but not least, changing a set of faces is really hard.
It's harder than past ones.
Okay?
It really is hard.
Now, think about why this is.
This was also studied.
Because, all these, you know, like, old faces, they're still here.
So, you cannot erase the cookies from your brain.
The past faces that, say, you used in last year, are still in your brain.
And, when you change, on January 1st, a new set of past faces, you will have a really hard
time remembering which ones are from each.
So, that was like, I think, a final nail in the coffin of this method.
Now, shoulder surfing.
Generally, graphical passwords, as are unlocked patterns, are more vulnerable to shoulder surfing.
Okay?
Because, selecting pictures, right, recognizable pictures, is just more visible.
And, also, it takes time, right?
So, with a password, if you do remember the password, it doesn't take the past.
It didn't take the past.
The recognition takes longer.
Because, you're going to see, let's say, in the example I showed, you'll see a small,
I mean, a screen with nine photos.
And, the position of the person's face, that is part of your past face, password, is going
to change.
So, your eyes have to go around, like, and find that face.
That takes longer, and that means it's easier to shoulder surfing.
So, there was an experiment done, a shoulder surfing experiment at the University of Maryland,
in Baltimore County, where people were using two types of passwords.
Pass faces with a mouse.
That's saying pass faces with a mouse.
Mouse means, yeah, you mouse over the face that you recognize, click.
Then, there's pass faces with a keyboard, where you basically use the arrow keys to move.
Dictionary text passwords is a normal password.
Non-dictionary text passwords with random words and numbers.
And, the result was, actually, non-dictionary text passwords was the worst.
That is, the best for shoulder surfing, but the worst for the users.
And, maybe you can tell me why that is.
Because, when you're typing non-dictionary text, you're kind of typed slower, because it's not a word, and...
It's not a word, and it's like...
Yeah, yeah.
Getting your fingers moving in really weird ways.
That's right.
So, that really is the only reason.
The only reason.
Now, one of the things that has been used, one of the techniques that has been used for pin entry,
that has been relatively successful, but it's really terrible for shoulder surfing, is this.
Maybe some of you have encountered it.
Yeah.
So, normally, you enter a pin by just typing in the number, right?
Anybody's ever seen other ways of entering a pin?
Okay, so...
Let me see if I...
I'm not sure what you're saying, but like...
Instead of being one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight...
Oh, oh, oh, right.
Scramble keypad, right?
Scramble keypad.
Okay.
Yeah.
On the screen.
On the screen.
On the screen.
On the screen.
Yes, I've seen those.
Not recently.
Does anybody see why?
Well, it slows you down.
Which is really bad for shoulder surfing.
But why do they do it?
Well, I guess that fixes the smudging problem.
Well, there's no smudging because you're typing, right?
So, they're clicking.
I think it's protecting for maybe some other app in your own phone.
Yes.
It's trying to protect from somebody, like, looking which part of the screen you type.
So, if there's some malicious program, whether it's on a smartphone or an air or an computer,
it's trying to protect from somebody, like, looking which part of the screen you type.
So, if there's some malicious program, whether it's on a smartphone or an air or a computer,
it's looking what part of the screen was clicked, they won't know.
They won't know, right?
We will know if the layout of the pin path is constant.
But if it varies, they won't know, right?
But the way that I was talking about is different.
Suppose that instead of entering the pin, what you have to do is use arrow keys to adjust a random number to your pin.
Has anybody seen that?
So, you're displaying a pin, which is some, let's say it's four digits, right?
You're displaying a 7, 9, 2, 5.
And your pin is actually 8, 1, 3, 7.
Right?
This is your pin.
But the number you see on the screen is this.
So, what you do is you use an arrow key once, then you sideways arrow key, right?
Sideways arrow key, then down 8, 8 clicks down, sideways, 1 click up, sideways, 2 clicks up.
Do you follow what I'm saying?
You essentially take a random number and adjust it to your pin.
Really terrible for shoulder surfing, because at the end of this, what will be displayed?
Your pin.
Right?
Because you're adjusting a random number to the pin, yes?
But what is it good for?
The entry is never the same.
The entry is never the same, and if there's a keyboard sniffer, a key logger, or a person in another room with a microphone listening to the clicks, what are they going to hear?
Different sequence.
Different sequence every time.
Different sequence.
Different sequence every time.
Don't make yourself puzzled.
Look at, look, look.
It's really an excellent method when somebody cannot look at your screen.
Right?
If the adversary is eavesdropping acoustically, or the adversary is recording the keystrokes, like because they planted some malicious driver on their keyboard, or some app that gets privileges to actually record the keystrokes, this method is excellent.
The problem is, it does display your pin in the end.
So if somebody is also looking at the screen, it does.
Right, so, if you want to read more about it, there's a nice article titled, Why Are We All Such Idiots?
And it tells you about password ticks.
This is Maurice, well, Maurice, like nine years old.
Now, let's look at biometrics for a sec.
Biometric authentication is, on the surface, kind of nice.
There's nothing to remember.
Absolutely nothing to remember with biometrics.
I mean, other than like, this is my finger, this is my face.
So, as long as you remember where your face is and where your fingers are, you're okay.
There's nothing to compute, generally, right?
With biometrics.
There's no device to carry around for you, right?
Now, okay, yes, phone is a device you do carry around, but in prior time, right?
Phones are not an issue, right?
If you wanted to get access to a system, right?
A mainframe computer or network, or enter a building, and it was protected by biometrics,
there's nothing you need to carry around, right?
Today, if the phone is what you want to get into, and you use a biometrics,
you don't have to carry around anything additional.
All right.
Biometrics cannot be shared.
That's the other problem.
A lot of people who share passwords.
Like, let's say, all the streaming sites, right?
How many of you share passwords on your streaming site?
I bet all of you do, right?
I mean, I personally mooch off my kids, you know?
I mean, I paid enough for them, now they can pay for my streaming pleasures.
So, yeah, we share pins, we share passwords.
If we need to have biometrics, you cannot share, right?
You can't, right?
It's just fundamentally shouldn't be possible.
Which is good, right?
So, imagine, I'm not hoping this will happen, but I wouldn't be surprised if next year Netflix
says, oh, you know, you want to use your Netflix account?
Well, stick your eyes in here, or come close to the camera, or like, you know,
look at your face, or face unlock with your phone, and it will give you a code, right?
So, something like that.
Can be pretty unique, right?
It's not always unique.
Not all biometrics are good enough, but, and they do vary quite a bit, but generally, they
can be made sufficiently accurate.
But the problems right away with biometrics is that they offer two things.
One is identification, which is associating an identity, right, with some action or data,
right?
Like a, like forensically finding a fingerprint in a crime scene, right?
That's identifying a criminal, right?
And authentication is verifying an identity, like verifying that you are here right now.
Do you see the difference?
Verification of live identity, right?
You are here right now.
Like when your phone looks at your face, right?
It's like, you are here right now.
Not you were here before, right?
But you are here right now.
That's authentication.
The difficulty of forgery is difficult to estimate, because it varies from biometric to biometric.
But it's usually overestimate.
There are computer generated forgeries.
There are also, with 3D printers, things become very interesting.
For example, fingerprints, right?
You can actually take somebody's fingerprint and easily, well, if you have access to a 3D printer, print a finger.
Just a disconnected thing that has a cushiony, human-like skin-cut feel, and perfectly replicates everything in the finger.
I mean, in the same way, you could also print somebody's face in 3D.
What is difficult to do in 3D is to make it live.
And you have it moving, right?
Have the lips moving, nose moving, et cetera.
But just to print the face, and that would fool some of the, maybe not current, but earlier face recognition.
Unlocks it.
It's totally doable.
And it's been demonstrated.
As I said before, revocation of biometrics is really hard.
And you need an infrastructure.
Right?
If you have a biometric based authentication in a company, let's say, on a company brand.
Anybody ever work for a company that uses biometrics?
No?
Hmm.
Thank you.
There's somebody else.
You did?
No.
What kind of admin?
We did fingerprints.
Fingerprints.
Well, so, that means readers, right?
So, it wasn't like you could come to the badge reader at the door of the company, put your phone there, and then unlock your phone, and it will let you know.
Right?
So, my guess is you have to put your finger on their fingerprint reader, right?
And so, every door had to be protected through the fingerprint.
That implies infrastructure.
Right?
It also implies enrollment.
And enrollment is what all of you go through when you do the first, when you get a new phone and you do the face unlock enrollment or fingerprint enrollment.
Now, face unlock enrollment is not that difficult, right?
How long does it take for you?
Give me an info card.
That's reasonably fast.
Anybody who took long?
A minute.
A minute.
Okay.
So, let's say a minute.
It's not a big deal these days, right?
Anybody remember doing fingerprint enrollment?
That took a long time.
It's annoying.
Right?
Because sometimes it will not take your finger because you're going to put it the right way, right?
That was very annoying.
I mean, my previous phone had fingerprint enrollment.
And also, well, I had high error rates.
If my finger was wet, it wouldn't work.
If my finger was dry, very dry, I had chalk on it, it wouldn't work.
So, it was okay.
Faces are better.
Anyway, but the point here is you need infrastructure, right?
So, forget, here we're used to this, right?
Unlocking this.
This is easy.
There's not a lot of infrastructure other than the camera to do face unlock.
Right?
And some software, some fancy software that actually supports it.
Right?
For fingerprint, the same even less, right?
Well, now they don't even have to.
But, if you want to do it on an enterprise-wide basis, that's an expensive investment.
You need to actually have all the device input devices, right?
For people through or for fingerprint.
Right?
It must have all these other programs.
This is more formal.
Right?
You need to consider using biometrics.
It has to be universal.
Right?
It has to be usable by most people.
So, if you suggest a biometric that only works for people with white skin, that isn't
good.
Or, if you suggest a biometric that only is usable for people who are right-handed, that's
not going to work.
Right?
Now, if you say, well, sorry, my biometric does not work for mute people.
Okay, it's not nice, but it's probably reasonably acceptable.
So, you have to make sure it's as universal as possible.
Unique.
There must be sufficient degree of distinction.
So, one biometric that has been proposed in the past is gait.
Gait is the way you walk.
Okay?
Turns out, most people walk in a very particular way.
Is it unique?
No.
There's other problems, but among other things, it's not unique.
Permanence.
This is consistency over time.
Does the biometric stay the same, or does it change?
For example, your genome stays the same.
Does your face stay the same?
Hmm?
Hmm?
Hmm?
Hmm?
Hmm?
Hmm?
Not certain, right?
Not certain.
What about your fingerprints?
Yeah, your fingerprints stay the same as long as you don't cut them off or, you know,
have a certain skin condition.
Eczema.
But otherwise, the generally stays the same.
Unobtrusiveness.
Does it disrupt the normal flow?
Well, if you tell me that before I enter the building I need to walk three times like
this in front of the door, there's going to be a large queue and I'm going to be very annoying.
So, it's definitely obtrusive, right?
So, unobtrusiveness is fine, right?
Maybe a fingerprint is not very obtrusive.
A face is reasonably not very obtrusive, right?
You're used to it now with TSA, right?
When you go to the airport.
Increasingly, they're starting to use face recognition.
Right?
They don't even ask you, some of the places don't even ask you for a boarding pass anymore.
Have you seen that?
I've encountered several times in the last six to eight months.
And they don't ask you for a boarding pass.
You just do a face recognition piece.
Circumvention difficulty.
It should be hard to impersonate others, but that relates to uniqueness.
Equipment cost, right?
It cannot cost an arm in a lab.
And easy enrollment things.
Or how difficult it is to enroll people in that boundary.
Enrolling people in something like a handwriting biometric.
Right?
Where they recognize your handwriting, but that's pretty time-fixing.
Enrolling in face biometrics, as you said, is not difficult.
There is in biometrics something called fraud rate, or basically a false positive.
Everybody familiar, I'm sure, with fraud positive?
Right?
And the insult rate.
Yeah.
That's an old term.
It means a false negative.
Right?
False negative means the system says, yeah, go away.
I don't know you.
Right?
That's an insult.
Right?
To the customer, right?
That's a false insult to me.
So, some companies that use biometrics, like banks, they're very, very concerned about insults.
Right?
Because they want to piss off the customer.
The government doesn't care.
They don't care about the insult.
Right?
So, fraud rate is false positive.
Right?
That is, how can you, the circumvention of biometrics, how is it to circumvent?
In some cases, how is it to mistakenly not recognize somebody?
Right?
So, usually they are like interdependent, like a seesaw.
We increase one, the other one goes down, and the other way around.
For face recognition, today, this has been a big, a big jump in efficacy.
But today, the error rates tend to be around 1% for face recognition.
That's for the best face recognition algorithms today.
Or just even under 1%.
And this is down from like 5% 10 years ago, and 20% 15 years ago.
So, there's been some amazing progress in face recognition.
Doesn't mean that's going to be your experience with your smartphone.
Because you're not running the fastest, the most advanced face recognition.
Just because your smartphone isn't capable of doing, you know, that much computation.
But, have you noticed that over time, the face recognition improved?
Especially with iPhones.
I mean, I'm not a fan of iPhones, but I found that iPhone face recognition is pretty good.
Like, I rarely have issues.
Whereas before, when I used the early Android face recognition, it was terrible.
Any kind of shadow, any kind of a hat, anything like that would throw it off.
And fingerprints were just horrific.
They were super annoying.
But fingerprints have been around for a long time.
Oh, sorry.
If you use weak hardware, like if you use IoT devices that use face recognition,
then the error rates will go up to like 40 or so.
So that's not very good.
Also, consider this.
Injuries, right?
You have a, you know, you run into a wall or something.
So, you know, you get into a fight, you know, part of your face like swells up.
That influences face recognition a lot.
Hair, shouldn't, right?
The really good algorithms, they don't, facial hair does not sway them,
but the cheaper algorithms, the faster algorithms do.
Medicines, drugs that alter, sometimes you'll have like bags under your eyes
or any kind of like things that, side effects of illegal drugs or just regular pharmaceutical medicine.
Plastic surgery clearly will alter your face, right?
So that's even something like a small nose job or a, what do you call it?
Lip injections can cause lack of recognition.
Acne, your acne will also cause problems.
So facial recognition has still some challenges.
Now, fingerprints were really popular before, right?
They've been used since like actually 19th century.
They were sort of, the whole process started in criminology in France, I think, in the 19th century.
But the US, the first conviction was in 1911 based on fingerprint evidence.
So there's a lot of science behind using fingerprints.
I mean, they're used today for crime scenes, identification, right, et cetera.
They're reasonably unique, right?
If you get an actual fingerprint, right, a full fingerprint, they're really unique.
The probability of collision is like 1 in 10 billion, maybe even less today.
The problem is, well, generally fingerprints don't change, right?
Unlike with the face, they don't change with time, right?
So a child's fingerprint is still going to have the same patterns and the same person when they are an adult.
The finger size, the fingertip size will grow, but the patterns will stay.
So it will grow proportionally, which means that modern fingerprint algorithms can accommodate, let's say, a teenager or a tween,
who are still going to grow, but the algorithm will still recognize their finger.
But eczema and, you know, scars and missing fingers, of course, indeed, lead up.
I think we are, oh, time to be done, yeah?
Yeah?
Is that 1 in 10 billion genetically, or...?
No, no, no, no.
I think genetically you are, I mean, in the analog world, you are unique when it's actually a fingerprint.
Now, I'm not speaking from, like, real knowledge here, but I remember reading something that, you know, you are unique, but the problem is the accuracy of it.
Taking the fingerprints, right?
That's why it's only 10 billion.
You should be good at it.
Okay.
So, again, if you have not sent me your project proposal, you need to do it to our SAP.
If I don't get it by the end of the day, you will lose points.
So, please get on the ball.
Let's just stick down the ball.
.
.
